Slide Notes
===========

# 1
I'm Jonathan


# 2
My talk is "pushing the limits of mobile", but really much of this stuff can be applied to email as a whole. Mobile is a really different environment, but in many ways, it's a preview of what's to come.

This is because the rise of mobile has brought the modern web with it. HTML5, CSS3 and OS-specific APIs are available to us to as powerful tools for design and marketing.

We'll take a look at some techniques of varying complexity that were previously impossible before mobile.

As a marketer, designer, developer, these are techniques that will give you a competitive edge.

# 3
So what am I really talking about here?

As email designers, we've been trained to think of email as an archaic, backward world. A great email designer knows more about `<table>` than most people know about HTML.

And that's extremely impressive, but this hasn't changed in a while. Dealing with clients like Outlook and Lotus Notes is more-or-less mandatory for any email of scale, but we can't let this hinder our creativity.

That's really what I'm here to talk about today.

# 4
If there's one thing I want to impart to you, it's the idea that there is still plenty of innovation in email. In fact, there is so much innovation...

#5
...that I think we need a framework for how to think about it.

I'd like to break out of this "defensive" way of designing emails and have a more optimistic outlook.

# 6
Before we dive in, I just want to say up front that not all of this is battle-tested to work in older clients. That's something I hope to get to eventually.

Great! Now on to the meat.

So what do we get when we unshackle ourselves from Outlook?

# 7
Staying relevant in the inbox will always be tough. Thankfully, you now have a whole new set of tools to help you make a strong impression. And people really care.

#8
This is a tweet from Hunter Walk. He's a pretty well-known and successful product guy. He has 35k twitter followers, and here he is talking about an email he got.

That's remarkable, and not just the "oh that's neat" kind of "remarkable." I stole this line from my CTO, but the definition of remarkable is something that causes someone to talk--to remark--about it.

This email they're talking about is _remarkable_. There's an entire thread on it.

# 9
The technique he's talking about is done using CSS animations. It's a (moderately) simple way to add a bit of life to an HTML element.

I'm a huge fan of this local video company called Wistia. Today, I'm going to pick on them a bit by making their emails better.

I've added a "pulse" animation to one of their recent emails. Every 7.5 seconds, the image, the main CTA here, gets richer for a bit. It's subtle, but perhaps it's enough to catch someone's attention and do something novel.

# 10
Remember, Wistia is a video company. There should be something here that moves and engages.

This example here could possibly be done with an animated gif, but if you want to do something rich and light, there are other techniques you can use.

My favorites are to do things with CSS, embedded images, or SVG. These are great for vector images, probably not a great fit for raster.

# 11

